Rough script of what Jenny said in a short video made by marketing to describe the WTF workshop in 2022

Reason #1

Workshops provide something that polished talks and written documentation cannot:

watching someone else work!

Instructors will be live coding and you'll get to look over their shoulder to see their daily process for getting stuff done.

Whether we like it or not, we will inevitably make mistakes or encounter unexpected glitches, so you also get to see how we troubleshoot and recover from error.

That can be very stressful if you're attempting to do a software demo in a 20-minute talk.

But, in a two-day, hands-on workshop, it's completely normal and expected, so instructors can afford to make themselves a bit more vulnerable and show you how they really work!


Reason #2

The missing curriculum

Most R users came to R because they needed to analyze data, not because they were desperate to become programmers.

As a result, lots of us don't have a ton of formal training in computer science or software development and we're self-taught.

And it's easy to develop weird little quirks or to fail to take advantage of known tricks of the trade.

I'm talking about all the meta stuff, like how to organize your work, how to use Git/GitHub for collaboration, how to debug, how to take care of your R installation.

This never comes up in the documentation for an R function.

This workshop gives you two-days to zoom out and get some ideas on how to redesign parts of your R workflow to make yourself more effective and happy.


Reason #3

The varied and complementary expertise of the instructors

I used to be a professor and lead analyst on large genomic studies, but I've been a software engineer at RStudio, on the tidyverse team, for several years.
Now I'm more of a tool builder.

Lead instructor is Shannon Pileggi, an experienced and practicing data scientist at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center.
She also has experience as a professor and regularly gives workshops through groups like R-Ladies, so she's an experienced instructor.

David Aja is a solutions engineer at RStudio (and was a practicing data scientist in the past).
Solutions engineers are the experts at getting R and RStudio's project working well inside various existing IT ecosystems.
So he is going to teach about personal system admiministration, including (but not only) how to manage your R installation.
I find that a lot of self-taught analysts tend aren't super comfortable installing and upgrading software, yet it's part of our job, so you might as well get better at it.
